# Real-time Sentiment Analysis for Covid19 vaccine
In this study, we build a Spark Streaming system to classify sentiments in real time with data on Twitter and Reddit, specifically tweets and comments related to COVID-19 vaccines, and then statistically analyze the results. The work includes finding the optimal model with the best performance for the task of analyzing the sentiments of the online community about COVID-19 vaccines and then applying this model to analyze the data in real time. In general, the system consists of two main components: an offline component and an online component. The offline component plays the role of developing sentiment analysis models and the online component is a real-time data prediction and statistical pipeline built on Spark. For the offline component, we use a self-collected dataset from Twitter including tweets about users' reactions to COVID-19 vaccines, then train models on this dataset using two approaches using the Spark MLlib (Machine Learning) and SparkNLP (Deep Learning) libraries. We combine the TF-IDF feature extraction method with two traditional Machine Learning models, Naive Bayes and Logistic Regression, and compare it with state-of-the-art word embedding algorithms LaBSE, GloVe, DistilBERT and Universal Sentence Encoder combined with Deep Learning models to select the best model and apply it to the online prediction component. Experimental results show that the ClassifierDL architecture (DNNs model) using the LaBSE feature extraction method has achieved the best performance and is applied to the online component. The online data collection process was developed using Twitter API and Tweepy for Twitter, Reddit API and Praw for Reddit. The analysis of the sentiment classification results of online constituents shows that Pfizer and Moderna are the two vaccines that are of interest and have a higher positive rating than the remaining vaccines.
